## Presto TSC Meeting

### 2023-11-12
##### 9:00 AM PST to 10:00 AM PST

##### Community Calendar

[Here](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=linuxfoundation.org_vrjlva5b0u73ps75fvnv5sasi4%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America%2FChicago) is the public calendar for the Presto TSC meetings.

##### How to Join

TSC meetings are open for all to join.

* https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/93067698239?password=a8877dc1-68a2-4ade-9076-d05043c15cd7

#### Agenda and Attending this meeting

To attend this meeting or propose a topic, edit this page and add your name to the list of attendees below along with your organization and location. Add any agenda item you wish to discuss, please include relevant links.

* This meeting is for the members of the technical steering committee for Presto + wider community.
* To cover everything, discussion may be time-constrained per topic.
* Topics that require less discussion should be covered first.
* To respect meeting size, topics should be relevant to the agenda.
* Every member is welcome; We are a transparent, collaborative community.
* We as members, contributors, and leaders pledge to make participation in our community a harassment-free experience for everyone.

##### Antitrust Policy Notice

* Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

* Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.

### Agenda

* [Tim] Leaderboard ([1](https://github.com/prestodb/tsc/blob/master/meetings/files/2024-11-12/Leaderboard1.png), [2](https://github.com/prestodb/tsc/blob/master/meetings/files/2024-11-12/Leaderboard2.png))
*  [Tim] Notable PRs
  * [Fix array_intersect for array<array<T>> #23890](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/pull/23890)
  * [[iceberg] Add UUID type support #23627](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/pull/23627)
  * [[native] Adds a native session property provider #23045](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/pull/23045) and [Add a config property for excluding java-worker session properties in a native cluster ](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/pull/23968) and [Add sidecars to NodeManager and add PluginNodeManager #23863](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/pull/23863)
  * [Add property to enable eager building of plan as part of new native plan checker SPI #23649](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/pull/23649) and [[native] Add native plan checker and native endpoint for Velox plan conversion #23596](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/pull/23596) and [Improve how we configure plan checker providers #23955](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/pull/23955)
  * [Add a native function namespace manager #23358](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/pull/23358)
  * [[native] Support planning row encoded exchange #23929](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/pull/23929) and [[native]support different vector serde in shuffle #23995](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/pull/23995)
  * [[native] Allow new Velox GCS changes #23917](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/pull/23917)
  * [Add scope for OAUTH2 authentication in Iceberg's REST catalog #23884](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/pull/23884)
  * [Add support for Velox based workers to the Presto helm chart #6](https://github.com/prestodb/presto-helm-charts/pull/6)
  * [[Proposal] Add functions to support Google polylines ](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/pull/23999)
  * [Move WindowNode and JoinNode variations to the SPI ](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/pull/23976)
  * [Add presto-native-tests module](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/pull/23671)
* [Zac/Rebecca] JDK upgrade - update and discussion about approach for CI (do we have capacity to run all tests on both 17 and 8? what should be our CI build and testing plan here?)
* [Pramod/Aditi] presto-native-tests - update on how far along the testing has come and next steps to move this work to OSS.

### Attendance


#### Voting Members

* Jay Narale
* Andrii Rosa
* Tim Meehan
* Ying Su 
* Aditi Pandit
* Rebecca Schlussel
* Beinan Wang 
* Zhenxiao Luo
* Amit Dutta 

"+" = attending


#### Other Attendees


### Discussion Items

- 
