## Presto TSC Meeting

### 2025-01-14
##### 9:00 AM PST to 10:00 AM PST

##### Community Calendar

[Here](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=linuxfoundation.org_vrjlva5b0u73ps75fvnv5sasi4%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America%2FChicago) is the public calendar for the Presto TSC meetings.

##### How to Join

TSC meetings are open for all to join.

* https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/93067698239?password=a8877dc1-68a2-4ade-9076-d05043c15cd7

#### Agenda and Attending this meeting

To attend this meeting or propose a topic, edit this page and add your name to the list of attendees below along with your organization and location. Add any agenda item you wish to discuss, please include relevant links.

* This meeting is for the members of the technical steering committee for Presto + wider community.
* To cover everything, discussion may be time-constrained per topic.
* Topics that require less discussion should be covered first.
* To respect meeting size, topics should be relevant to the agenda.
* Every member is welcome; We are a transparent, collaborative community.
* We as members, contributors, and leaders pledge to make participation in our community a harassment-free experience for everyone.

##### Antitrust Policy Notice

* Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

* Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.

### Agenda

* [Tim] [Leaderboard](https://github.com/prestodb/tsc/tree/master/meetings/files/2025-01-14)
* [Tim] Notable PRs
  * [Add support for pluggable Custom Presto Authenticators by imsayari404 · Pull Request \#24111 · prestodb/presto](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/pull/24111)
  * [Add support for row filtering and column masking access control by BryanCutler · Pull Request \#24277 · prestodb/presto](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/pull/24277)
  * [\[native\] TopNRank optimization by aditi-pandit · Pull Request \#24138 · prestodb/presto](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/pull/24138)
  * [Update Prestissimo docs to remove restriction for UUID type by aditi-pandit · Pull Request \#24358 · prestodb/presto](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/pull/24358)
  * [Support BigInt in the `QueryResult` component by yhwang · Pull Request \#24336 · prestodb/presto](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/pull/24336)
  * [Dynamically Linked Library in Presto CPP by soumiiow · Pull Request \#24330 · prestodb/presto](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/pull/24330)
  * [Assign event loop to tasks and run a task's methods in the same loop by shangm2 · Pull Request \#24288 · prestodb/presto](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/pull/24288)
  * CircleCI deprecation and removal: [\[native\] Enable linux build on master after PR merge by czentgr · Pull Request \#24279 · prestodb/presto](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/pull/24279), [\[native\] Delete files not needed for the debug build by czentgr · Pull Request \#24331 · prestodb/presto](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/pull/24331), [\[native\] Remove old CircleCI jobs by czentgr · Pull Request \#24280 · prestodb/presto](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/pull/24280), [\[native\] Convert CircleCI jobs for PrestoC++ to Github actions by czentgr · Pull Request \#24236 · prestodb/presto](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/pull/24236)
  * [\[native\] Add support shuffle compression for Prestissimo by xiaoxmeng · Pull Request \#24295 · prestodb/presto](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/pull/24295)
  * [Introducing ClientRequestFilter.java: A New Plugin for Merging Additional Headers into Client Requests in the Authentication Filter by SthuthiGhosh9400 · Pull Request \#23380 · prestodb/presto](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/pull/23380)
* [Rebecca] Java upgrade timeline
* [Bryan] Row and column level filtering SPI changes

### Attendance


#### Voting Members

* Jay Narale +
* Andrii Rosa +
* Tim Meehan +
* Ying Su 
* Aditi Pandit +
* Rebecca Schlussel +
* Beinan Wang +
* Zhenxiao Luo +
* Amit Dutta

"+" = attending


#### Other Attendees

* Ali LeClerc
* Anant Aneja
* Bryan Cutler
* Chandrashekhar Kumar Singh
* Deepak Majeti
* Ethan Zhang
* Jalpreet Singh Nanda
* Paula Santos
* Reetika Agrawal
* Steve Burnett
* Yi-Hong Wang
* Zac Blanco


### Discussion Items

- 
